in line with
better at the
moment than it comes to
throughout
the day to whatever
to whatever it is to us
what interests us already
move on to what
it will be and if
if you haven't
already been to it
seven and passes to four
I do it now I'm not going to if
well if it's not easy what you wrote it
I'm sorry I
don't because I come to
I don't know
again that it's going to
if it's not going to be how
I'm not
going to write it or
going to not go to
imagine
already to the way in
that goes to four
five to four to
four to half a point
a goes to
physics that are within
we're not
going to class here
a a tomorrow to which
will have no house surely
yes early in the morning I will
use it to
he's going to not go to me
come on for forty minutes
walks to wonder to
it goes to when you
it's going to come and
going to ya
va a tengo e a a
a a a is not going to
a and I'm going to
study the tangent on the right
e
to now will not leave
will not escape will not
happens to a a not
if you are going to a
a e of capacitors
you are going to see that it is
a very fast topic with few concepts
you can work it out
in a week you
can work well and
well let's see the
definition of a capacitor work only
the flat capacitor what
happens to it capacitor when we put a
insulating material inside
can be a plastic can be any
material that does not have free electrons
e how to work an association of
capacitors that is an association
to stored energy and
some interesting applications
that we will see to
_ _ EMPTY _ _
a capacitor is always a
pair of conductors with influence
electrostatic
and here we connect a little what
we have worked on the previous topic
when we have two drivers
and total influence
that is to say that the entire
electric field field line of conductor one
arrives at the driver two
that is what happens
because the burden that there is in
the surface are equal
and of opposite sign is valid
good to those two
surfaces with identical load
but contrary sign are
called armor of a capacitor worth
and then
there's a parameter
that characterizes
a capacitor which is
what is called the capacity
which is defined
as the burden we have
in armor in charge q
divided by the difference in
potential between the two conduits
_ _ EMPTY _ _
this definition
it is an invariable always
invariable in any only dependent capacitor
of the geometry of the
capacitor with which we are working
this depends on
and as it depends only on the
geometry we put cylindrical or flat
because basically
it is always
an invariable worth we can
increase the difference in power
automatically
increase the load
we can decrease the load
automatically will decrease the potential difference
but value is the quotient
always comes out a constant number
which depends
on the geometry
if we do not vary the
geometry of the capacitor start itself
that's what it means
the unit of
measure is the Faradio
Faradio who is a culomb
divided by a volt
what happens that as
you see in practice are used
the derived
nanopharadio units the
microfaradio vale
e in the case of a flat
capacitor you have here drawn
it's a case of how we've
talked about influence before
total electrostatic as
long as the separation distance
between plate armor
is very small compared to
the dimensions of
the plates compared
with the
sides of the surface
if it 's very small, it' s
theoretically the same thing as approaching.
to the ideal
case of infinite plates
then the total influence of
the electric field always goes
from positive charge
to negative we will go
well then let's as I
said before we focus alone
in the capacitor
and
you have it
there perfectly drawn
let's learn how the capacitor
capacity is calculated if we have
two flat plates
e and
e parallels are
connected to a source
to a battery
and that battery what it does
is keep the potential difference
between driver
one and the cont